https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59879271/hosted-service-not-terminating-after-environment-exit/59880060?noredirect=1#comment109720795_59880060

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60517716/can-a-net-core-application-on-windows-trap-a-sigterm-event/60536645#60536645
- and https://github.com/StephenCleary/DockerLifetime

- Modern HTTP Client Best Practices (for the cloud world)
  - Why?
    - Many services are API-first. They document their API well.
    - Most services also try to provide client libraries for common runtimes. But these client libraries are:
      - Not documented as well.
      - Lag behind in API features.
      - Sometimes have an awkward API (not written by someone familiar with that language/runtime).
      - Tend to have bugs.
      - Variety of approaches to errors. Is 404 an error or just a response?
        - Pulling error details / headers from responses sometimes left out if errors are structured as exceptions.
      - Upgrade problems: when upgrading a major version of one client library, a change in behavior (no longer throwing exceptions on 4xx responses) caused loss of production data.
      - Have a wide variety in their support of cancellation, retry logic, and logging (and customization in general).
      - Sometimes don't exist. Or are abandonware.
    - Solution: for these "API-first" services, code to their API, not to their client library.
      - As you write helper types, you should only consider how *your* application wants to use *that* API. Not every application; not every API.
  - `HttpClient` over `WebClient` / `HttpWebRequest`.
    - Async-friendly.
    - Provides a "pipeline".
  - Pair of problems with `HttpClient`:
    - Instance per request -> socket exhaustion
    - Static instance -> no DNS updates
    - `HttpClientFactory`
    - Always register delegating handlers as transient, and do not take the base handler in the constructor!
  - Authentication as a message handler.
    - Caching authentication secrets.
    - Responding to authentication secrets being refreshed.
  - Polly and retries.
    - Exponential backoff and decorrelated jitter with immediate first retry and ceiling.
    - Transient HTTP errors.
      - Manually include 429 for some reason.
    - Consider the placement of retry message handler with relation to authentication message handler.
    - Complete retry example with exponential backoff and decorrelated jitter with immediate first retry and ceiling.
  - Giving up.
    - Polly policy wrapping, using Timeout as an example.
    - Use Polly timeouts, not HttpClient.Timeout: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19260060/retrying-httpclient-unsuccessful-requests (see all comments); https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/wiki/Polly-and-HttpClientFactory#use-case-applying-timeouts
    - Advanced notes: Polly also supports caching and circuit breaking (for your own APIs).
  - Logging.
    - Default logging: information and trace levels. No Fiddler necessary!
      - "Inner" and "Outer" logging.
    - Correlation ids. (place in service class so they apply to outer handler and possibly multiple requests treated as a single logical unit)
    - Anything else. E.g., RUs consumed, server-side request ids. (place in delegating handler)
  - Refit for defining APIs more cleanly.
  - Refit + `HttpClientFactory`.
  - Make your own AddMyService extension method.
  - Complete example code. Include repository with utility types.
  - Worked example: GitHub
  - Worked example: CosmosDb?
  - Worked example: Auth0?
  - Worked example: Stripe?


Updated example of Auth0 + Azure Functions
- https://github.com/StephenClearyExamples/FunctionsAuth0
- Modern Auth0 (SPA SDK, no more implicit flow)
- Modern Azure Functions (v3, .NET Core 3.1)
- Include retry from https://blog.wille-zone.de/post/secure-azure-functions-with-jwt-token/

NuGet lock files in the real world

Typed JavaScript series
- possibly tips a la https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet

https://www.jonathancreamer.com/why-would-you-not-use-typescript/

Logging:
- Structured Logging / Semantic Logging
  - Usually written to JSON and sent to an ElasticSearch backend.
  - Other possibilities exist, e.g., ETW.
  - Example queries, usually inspired by Lucene. Restrict by CorrelationId, or HttpResponseCode:(>=400 AND <500)
- Logging.
  - The easy way.
  - The Right Way(tm).
- Logging scope messages and scope values.
- Implementing a provider: ILoggerProvider and ILogger combo.
- Implementing ILoggerProvider.CreateLogger. ConcurrentDictionary.
- Implementing ILogger.IsEnabled.
- Implementing ILogger.Log.
- What is Scope? https://andrewlock.net/using-anonymous-types-and-tuples-to-attach-correlation-ids-to-scope-state-with-serilog-and-seq-in-asp-net-core/
- Implementing ILogger.BeginScope (2.1)
- Implementing ILogger.BeginScope (old-school)
- Final notes on ILoggerProvider: ILoggerFactory extension methods.

Migrating to automatic package restore: https://github.com/NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget/issues/993

- GUID library available. Decoding and predictable.
- Predictable GUIDs for maintaining id relationships.
- JWK example code for RSA keys.

- Using EventSource to detect blocking: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/8931#issuecomment-337354565

Updated Best Practices in Async Programming: tables with Dos and Don'ts
Write new version of length-prefix code using Span<T>.

The many meanings of ".NET Core".

Update framework profiles post.

Versions:
[AssemblyVersion] <AssemblyVersion/> -> Used by Strong-Name Signing
[AssemblyFileVersion] <FileVersion/> -> Used by Explorer ("File version")
[AssemblyFileInformationalVersion] <Version/> -> Used by Explorer ("Product version")
TODO: hierarchy
- Which ones are created by others.
- How things behave when absent.

Eliding async local: https://mail.google.com/mail/ca/u/0/#inbox/15d898a04a7dda7c

Soon:
- Update ASP.NET post(s) to refer to https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn589781.aspx

async javascript
- Similarities and differences to async C#
- promises complete asynchronously
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/all#Promise.all_fail-fast_behaviour
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/allSettled
- await foreach vs for await

- "In parallel" vs "parallel processing".

Synchronization primitives: when to use what?
Lock
Monitor
Condition Variable
Semaphore
ManualResetEvent
AutoResetEvent
CountdownEvent
ReaderWriterLock

- Testing timing code.
  - The problem with using delays in testing (including timers, Task.Delay, and Thread.Sleep). Resolution, unguaranteed (esp on busy machine / small instances).
  - Rx's IScheduler and TestScheduler.
  - Polly's time abstraction.
  - Using MSFakes (VSUltimate) to hook into Task.Delay / CancellationTokenSource.CancelAfter / etc.

- child process with async WaitForExit and redirected I/O.
- Railway programming for TPL Dataflow.
- ValueTask<T>
- async Win32 service complete with cancel & pause. Also show use of AsyncContextThread.
- async/await, IDisposable/using, nullable types?.
- async in other languages: Dart, JS, https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/
- calling asynchronous code from synchronous code
- Cancellation
- Progress
- ObservableDisposable: CreateForUi and IObservable<T>
- await & dynamic
- async ninject/dynamicproxy
  - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15199447/return-await-method-invoke/15203215#15203215
- unit testing asynchronous timeout scenarios (using Rx TestScheduler)
- What the *Async/*TaskAsync suffix means
- Chat sample: TCP/IP sockets vs. SignalR
- At the lowest level of async: controlling a device driver. OVERLAPPED with TaskCompletionSource.
  - Device driver can just be an "integer queue" - 32-bit ints can be queued or dequeued (which will wait until one arrives, if necessary). Requires monitor.
  - Or can be a keyboard filter driver.
- async javascript: promises (always async)
- taskcompletionsource and es6 promises
  - promises always complete asynchronously
  - unhandled exception behavior
- translation to+from TCS and js promises for embedded js code

Part 12 - Task.Factory.FromAsync, TaskCompletionSource, and TaskExtensions.Unwrap

Part 13 - ConfigureAwait, Yield, and Dispose
- ConfigureAwait
- Dispose

Part 14 - .NET 4.6? Or just go back and rewrite everything?

Misc TODOs:
- Update async delegates post to have clearer pairs in the tables.
- Update eliding post to not dispose HttpClient.
- http://blog.stephencleary.com/2012/02/reporting-progress-from-async-tasks.html#comment-3173011456
- Update Framework Profiles post with universal apps