- Cancellation
  - Clean Up and Disposal. (Thanks to Maxim for suggesting this topic!)
  - Uncancelable code: History. Thread.Abort and its issues. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75921324/cancel-method-which-doesnt-accept-cancellation-token/75921943#75921943
  - Uncancelable code: Canceling waits. Danger of canceling waits. Polly's term: "Pessimistic"; have to opt-in. In terms of the underlying operation, this is an "Abandon" rather than a "Cancel".
  - Uncancelable code: Closing handles. Common Win32 approach when the individual operations are uncancelable.
    - Historical note: `CancelIoEx`
    - public static async ValueTask<T> TranslateExceptions<T>(Func<ValueTask<T>> work)
    {
        try
        {
            return await work().ConfigureAwait(false);
        }
        catch (SocketException ex) when (ex.SocketErrorCode == SocketError.OperationAborted)
        {
            throw new OperationCanceledException(ex.Message, ex);
        }
        catch (Win32Exception ex) when (ex.NativeErrorCode == 0x000003E3) // ERROR_OPERATION_ABORTED
        {
            throw new OperationCanceledException(ex.Message, ex);
        }
    }
  - Uncancelable code: External process. The only reliable and safe general-purpose solution.
  - Case study: HttpClient:
    - Detecting cancellation isn't as useful. Ideally, detecting cancellation tells you whether something completed successfully or not; HttpClient cancellation only tells you that it *might* not have completed successfully, but ensures that any successful response is thrown away.
    - Cancellation may still be useful for quick disposal of resources. However, the (current) protocol does not encourage that, since HTTP/TCP connections are expensive.
    - However however, the next version of HTTP (HTTP/QUIC) has cheap connections. TODO: does it have a way to cancel requests? If not, then you'd still want the connection.
    - So perhaps the best solution is just an Abandon rather than Cancel. And we already have that: WaitAsync(CT).
  
Structured Concurrency:
- Something was missing: WhenAll good, WhenAny questionable. Races with cancellation. WhenAll with eager cancellation on failure. Two sides of the same coin.
- Something was missing: multiple "top-level loops". Run until cancelled, have to have top-level exception handling, often kicked off by fire-and-forget (sometimes using async void). I wanted a dynamic WhenAll, where any in-progress work could start other work and include it in the WhenAll.
- One of my workmates wrote a blog post on Structured Concurrency, which I had not heard of. Finally spent a Saturday reading all about it (right now, there's not a whole lot written). Finally realized: this is what's missing.
- Here's the gist: fire-and-forget is the goto of the async world. Technically, more of the longjmp of the async world, but most developers are blessed not to know what longjmp is.
- Pure SC: green threads, sync apis (actually async green-thread-aware apis), restricts interop, difficult to treat any thread specially (GUI frameworks, COM interop, single-threaded libraries - there's a reason Go is mainly used serverside and not for mobile apps), can *only* use green-thread-aware apis, questions about parallelism support, questions about atomicity (blocks known to be uninterruptible). Essentially: throw everything away and start over. Maybe the future does look like that - new languages enforcing strict SC, maybe restructuring GUI apps so they're a browser with an embedded server.
- Pragmatic SC: provide tools for SC. It's up to developers to use them.
- https://verdagon.dev/blog/seamless-fearless-structured-concurrency is the Pure SC Ideal. Also see other posts like the calssic Trio one.

InterlockedEx: old quiz on lockfree code incl DCL-is-broken, 6 months of Dr Dobbs readers attempting to write a lockfree data structure. MS attempting to create a more efficient .NET but couldn't because so much lockfree code was wrong.

Modern C#:
- Tag Types?

- Better boolean argument hack

- Synchronous implementations of asynchronous signatures: prefer #pragma.

async/await:
- asynchronous waits
- wrapper/unwrapper
- callbacks

- IConfiguration in Azure Functions: https://github.com/Azure/azure-functions-host/search?q=IConfiguration&unscoped_q=IConfiguration

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60517716/can-a-net-core-application-on-windows-trap-a-sigterm-event/60536645#60536645
- and https://github.com/StephenCleary/DockerLifetime

- Modern HTTP Client Best Practices (for the cloud world)
  - Authentication as a message handler.
    - Caching authentication secrets.
    - Responding to authentication secrets being refreshed.
  - Polly and retries.
    - Exponential backoff and decorrelated jitter with immediate first retry and ceiling.
    - Transient HTTP errors.
      - Manually include 429 for some reason.
    - Consider the placement of retry message handler with relation to authentication message handler.
    - Complete retry example with exponential backoff and decorrelated jitter with immediate first retry and ceiling.
  - Giving up.
    - Polly policy wrapping, using Timeout as an example.
    - Use Polly timeouts, not HttpClient.Timeout: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19260060/retrying-httpclient-unsuccessful-requests (see all comments); https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/wiki/Polly-and-HttpClientFactory#use-case-applying-timeouts
    - Advanced notes: Polly also supports caching and circuit breaking (for your own APIs).
  - Logging.
    - Default logging: information and trace levels. No Fiddler necessary!
      - "Inner" and "Outer" logging.
    - Correlation ids. (place in service class so they apply to outer handler and possibly multiple requests treated as a single logical unit)
    - Anything else. E.g., RUs consumed, server-side request ids. (place in delegating handler)
  - Refit for defining APIs more cleanly.
  - Refit + `HttpClientFactory`.
  - Make your own AddMyService extension method.
  - Complete example code. Include repository with utility types.
  - Worked example: GitHub
  - Worked example: CosmosDb?
  - Worked example: Auth0?
  - Worked example: Stripe?

Updated example of Auth0 + Azure Functions
- https://github.com/StephenClearyExamples/FunctionsAuth0
- Modern Auth0 (SPA SDK, no more implicit flow)
- Modern Azure Functions (v3, .NET Core 3.1)
- Include retry from https://blog.wille-zone.de/post/secure-azure-functions-with-jwt-token/
- https://techiesweb.net/2023/02/11/azure-functions-input-converters.html

NuGet lock files in the real world

Typed JavaScript series
- possibly tips a la https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet

https://www.jonathancreamer.com/why-would-you-not-use-typescript/

Logging:
- Structured Logging / Semantic Logging
  - Usually written to JSON and sent to an ElasticSearch backend.
  - Other possibilities exist, e.g., ETW.
  - Example queries, usually inspired by Lucene. Restrict by CorrelationId, or HttpResponseCode:(>=400 AND <500)
- Logging.
  - The easy way.
  - The Right Way(tm).
- Logging scope messages and scope values.
- Implementing a provider: ILoggerProvider and ILogger combo.
- Implementing ILoggerProvider.CreateLogger. ConcurrentDictionary.
- Implementing ILogger.IsEnabled.
- Implementing ILogger.Log.
- What is Scope? https://andrewlock.net/using-anonymous-types-and-tuples-to-attach-correlation-ids-to-scope-state-with-serilog-and-seq-in-asp-net-core/
- Implementing ILogger.BeginScope (2.1)
- Implementing ILogger.BeginScope (old-school)
- Final notes on ILoggerProvider: ILoggerFactory extension methods.

- GUID library available. Decoding and predictable.
- Predictable GUIDs for maintaining id relationships.
- JWK example code for RSA keys.

- Using EventSource to detect blocking: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/8931#issuecomment-337354565

Updated Best Practices in Async Programming: tables with Dos and Don'ts
Write new version of length-prefix code using Span<T>.

Update framework profiles post.

Versions:
[AssemblyVersion] <AssemblyVersion/> -> Used by Strong-Name Signing
[AssemblyFileVersion] <FileVersion/> -> Used by Explorer ("File version")
[AssemblyFileInformationalVersion] <Version/> -> Used by Explorer ("Product version")
TODO: hierarchy
- Which ones are created by others.
- How things behave when absent.

Eliding async local: https://mail.google.com/mail/ca/u/0/#inbox/15d898a04a7dda7c

Soon:
- Update ASP.NET post(s) to refer to https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn589781.aspx?WT.mc_id=DT-MVP-5000058

async javascript
- Similarities and differences to async C#
- promises complete asynchronously
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/all#Promise.all_fail-fast_behaviour
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/allSettled
- await foreach vs for await

- "In parallel" vs "parallel processing".

Synchronization primitives: when to use what?
Lock
Monitor
Condition Variable
Semaphore
ManualResetEvent
AutoResetEvent
CountdownEvent
ReaderWriterLock

- Testing timing code.
  - The problem with using delays in testing (including timers, Task.Delay, and Thread.Sleep). Resolution, unguaranteed (esp on busy machine / small instances).
  - Rx's IScheduler and TestScheduler.
  - Polly's time abstraction.
  - Using MSFakes (VSUltimate) to hook into Task.Delay / CancellationTokenSource.CancelAfter / etc.

- child process with async WaitForExit and redirected I/O.
- Railway programming for TPL Dataflow.
- async Win32 service complete with cancel & pause. Also show use of AsyncContextThread.
- async/await, IDisposable/using, nullable types?.
- async in other languages: Dart, JS, https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/
- calling asynchronous code from synchronous code
- Progress
- ObservableDisposable: CreateForUi and IObservable<T>
- await & dynamic
- async ninject/dynamicproxy
  - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15199447/return-await-method-invoke/15203215#15203215
- unit testing asynchronous timeout scenarios (using Rx TestScheduler)
- What the *Async/*TaskAsync suffix means
- Chat sample: TCP/IP sockets vs. SignalR
- At the lowest level of async: controlling a device driver. OVERLAPPED with TaskCompletionSource.
  - Device driver can just be an "integer queue" - 32-bit ints can be queued or dequeued (which will wait until one arrives, if necessary). Requires monitor.
  - Or can be a keyboard filter driver.
- async javascript: promises (always async)
- taskcompletionsource and es6 promises
  - promises always complete asynchronously
  - unhandled exception behavior
- translation to+from TCS and js promises for embedded js code

Part 12 - Task.Factory.FromAsync, TaskCompletionSource, and TaskExtensions.Unwrap

Part 13 - ConfigureAwait, Yield, and Dispose
- ConfigureAwait
- Dispose

Part 14 - .NET 4.6? Or just go back and rewrite everything?

Misc TODOs:
- Update async delegates post to have clearer pairs in the tables.
- Update eliding post to not dispose HttpClient.
- http://blog.stephencleary.com/2012/02/reporting-progress-from-async-tasks.html#comment-3173011456
- Update Framework Profiles post with universal apps

The King Is But a Man. (Comparison in .NET, Part the First)
- Nito.Comparers has more major revisions than any other library I've written. It has over 1500 unit tests.
  - Please use it.
- object.Equals(object) - self-compare, loose types
- object.GetHashCode() - self-compare, loose or strong types
- IEquatable<T>.Equals(T) - self-compare, strong types
- operator== - self-compare, strong types (recommended for types with value semantics)
- operator!= - self-compare, strong types (recommended for types with value semantics)
- object.Equals(object, object) - helper method for self-compare loose types
- object.ReferenceEquals(object, object) - helper method for specific kind of compare
- IEqualityComparer.Equals - other-compare, loose types
- IEqualityComparer.GetHashCode - other-compare, loose types
- IEqualityComparer<T>.Equals - other-compare, strong types
- IEqualityComparer<T>.GetHashCode - other-compare, strong types
- Structural equality: Array, Tuple, ValueTuple, but not records.
  Reference and value types
  Classes
  Structs
  Read-only structs
  Tuples
  Value tuples
  Record classes
  Record structs
  Read-only record struct
- Equality and inheritance (and see record implementations of these)
- StructuralComparisons class

Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer's Day? (Comparison in .NET, Part the Second)
- Nito.Comparers has more major revisions than any other library I've written. It has N unit tests.
  - Please use it.
- (table summary of last post)
- IComparable.CompareTo
- IComparable<T>.CompareTo
- IComparer.Compare
- IComparer<T>.Compare
- operator< and <=, >, >=
- IStructuralComparable
- Comparison and inheritance

More of Your Conversation Would Infect My Brain. (Comparison in .NET, Part the Third)
- Nito.Comparers has more major revisions than any other library I've written. It has N unit tests.
  - Please use it.
- Default treatment of `null`.
- The problem of `null` with comparer `GetHashCode` implementations. And English words.
  https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/37569
  https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/30998
- Exceptions: avoiding the unavoidable.
- Weird edge cases, and how the framework comparers handle them.
- Equality vs Equivalence vs Identity (?)
  - Value types and reference types.
  - Substitutability and equivalence. Also ephemerons.
  - Possibly other languages, e.g., how JS handles value types.
- Floating-point values and non-equivalent "equality".
  - NaN != NaN (JS: undefined != undefined)
  - "Close enough" equality comparison is not associative.
    - Consider three very close floating point values (a, b, c): a = b and b = c but a != c.
    - You can implement the `Equals` method but not the `Equals` contract.
    - E.g., consider a dictionary using a "close enough" equality comparer. `dict[a] = 5; dict[c] = 7; dict[b] = 13;` - is `a` or `c` overwritten? They're both equal to `b` but not each other.
  - Recommendation: use a completely different API, like `CloseEnough` instead of `Equals` to make it clear it's not an equivalence relation.
  - `HashSet.SetEquals`
- Weak partial ordering (?)
  - https://stackoverflow.com/a/16694905/263693
  - Object instances cannot be reasonably compared.
  - Example of sorting by collection size when elements cannot be compared. Equivalent sets that are not equal (and cannot be compared).
  - Regular sorts tend to assume total order, which works fine for sorting equivalence classes. For weak partial orders, you can use stable sorts or topological sorts.
